FlowFuse 2.21 Release Post (#3666)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2025/08/flowfuse-release-2-21.md

---
title: "FlowFuse 2.21: AI-Assisted SQL, Low-Code Custom Nodes, and Remote Instance Performance Insights"

> subtitle: "Introducing FlowFuse Assistant functionality in Tables to do natural language queries of your databases, Remote Instance observability to improve performance monitoring, Team Broker nodes to make MQTT even easier to work with, a new Energy Monitoring Blueprint, Annual Billing for Self-Service, AI-Generated Snapshot Summaries, and new subflow verison control to provide low-code development of custom nodes."

Author: ```suggestion
subtitle: "Introducing FlowFuse Assistant functionality in Tables to do natural language queries of your databases, Remote Instance observability to improve performance monitoring, Team Broker nodes to make MQTT even easier to work with, a new Energy Monitoring Blueprint, Annual Billing for Self-Service, AI-Generated Snapshot Summaries, and new subflow version control to provide low-code development of custom nodes."
```

Managing instance versions becomes more intuitive with our new Snapshot Summarization feature. When creating snapshots, FlowFuse now automatically generates intelligent summaries that describes which changes were made and when. This makes it much easier for teams to understand project evolution and quickly identify the right version for deployment or rollback scenarios.

Available for Pro and Enterprise.

## Team Broker Nodes

Easily publish and subscribe to topics in the FlowFuse Broker using new Team Broker nodes. Send a message from a Node-RED flow directly into the FlowFuse Broker. These new nodes extend the Unified Namespace capabilities of FlowFuse and provide:

- **Publish Node**: Send messages to any topic on your team broker with configurable retention settings
- **Subscribe Node**: Receive messages from specified topics with flexible output formatting
- **Auto-Configuration**: Nodes automatically use your team's broker settings
- **TypedInput Support**: Dynamic topic configuration using message properties or static values

These nodes make working between Node-RED and the FlowFuse Broker much simpler and easier.

## SubFlow Version Control

> SubFlows now have comprehensive version control capabilities, enabling teams to manage reusable components across multiple applications. With this feature, you can turn a subflow into a new node that is shared in your internal Team Library, providing for easy use and reuse of the same subflow in any Node-RED instance. You can now track changes to SubFlows separately from parent applications and other Node-RED instances.

Author: ```suggestion
With Subflow Version Control, you can now very easily create and manage custom nodes, without writing code or further manual steps. You can now create a custom node from any flows in Node-RED by using our Subflow feature: simply select a flow as a SubFlow, and you can add it to your internal Team Library. As custom nodes, SubFlows have comprehensive version control capabilities, enabling teams to manage reusable components across multiple applications. 
```
